Okay, @xavier I read it.  A couple of critiques.  (1)  you seem to be answering a different question than you are asking.  The question you asked was "how much would it cost to house every single unhoused person in the U.S.?"  But many of your figures seem to be based on this Denver experiment.  I took a look at that project, and most of the expenses are actually associated with providing services to the homeless, which is a different question.  Denver gave each homeless person a housing voucher for 11K per year.  The rest was spent on services.   (2)  you seem to be assuming that this number will scale at a linear rate.  301 people were housed in Denver, and you seem to be assuming that this will be the same average cost if we scale up to 150K.  The typical distribution is increasing marginal costs.  (3) you are assuming that the homeless population will stay constant.  People respond to incentives.  If you give anyone who is "homeless" 11K, then you will find when the program is actually administered, that there are a lot more than 150K "homeless" people.  This is the classic mistake people make when estimating the cost of a program.  They don't account that people will react.  (4) you acknowledge this, but this doesn't include the cost of building housing.  Since there is a housing shortage, you cannot house more people without building more housing.  This cost is substantial, especially in state's like CA.  As a thought excercise, if you gave every homeless person in Santa Cruz an 11K housing voucher, how much people would be able to find a place to stay for <1k per month?  Certainly not the entire homeless population.  There aren't enough rooms!  (5)  you seem to be dividing the total cost (around 9 billion) by the total population (350 million).  You should instead be dividing by around 200 million (the number of Americans between 18 and 65) or maybe better, 115 million (the number of Americans that paid federal income tax).  But I quibble.  I agree with your broader point that it wouldn't be THAT expensive to stop homelessness, and I certainly agree that we should pay it whether each person has to pay $30 a year or $300 year.  But back to our previous question, how should it be done?  Are you a free market person or a socialist?  A socialist would say the government should provide the housing.  A free market person would say each person should be given a voucher sufficient to pay for housing, and we should let the private market compete to provide them the housing.  I am 100% sure that you would get better housing and cheaper housing if you used vouchers and a competitive market than if you have the government try to do this.  This is my version of capitalism.  I 100% support housing the homeless, but it should be done with the free market not the government.  The government should pay for it, but the free market should do it.
